The python scrips <code>interface.py</code> compiles, links and runs the main program, reads the generated data file and plots the result. It requires all .o files apart from the main program to already exist. Running

<pre> 
Terminal > python interface.py main
Input name of datafile : example.dat
</pre>

will compile and run the program `main.cpp`, with "example.dat" as an argument, then read the file `example.dat` and create a plot `example.eps` from the data.

The programs `SolarSystem`, `SmallSystem` and `simple` can be used as `main`. Note that the file name is not taken as an argument by `simple`, so use `simple.dat` or change it in the code.

`SolarSystem`
Simulates the Sun, the eight planets in the solar system and Pluto. The file `posvel.dat` contains the initial conditions relative to the sun in AU and AU/day. `masses.dat` contains the planetary masses in kg. 

`SmallSystem`
Can simulate systems with the Sun, Earth, Mercury and Jupiter. 

`simple`
Simulates a two-body system without object orientation. Both the Euler-Cromer and velocity Verlet are implemented, and each can easily be commented out to use the other. 

Values to set in the codes: 
N : number of time steps
T : simulation time in years

See `physics_simulator.hpp` for explanation of the class functions.

The folder testruns contains data files and terminal output generated by the programs.
The results were produced with Apple clang version 11.0.3 (clang-1103.0.32.59) in macOS 10.15.4
